Jaime, thank you very much.
Many thanks to you.
I am glad you are here with
us today.
I think it will be very enriching
for Power MBA students.
Let's talk about CRM and I'll
ask you a few simple questions.
What is CRM?
Well, CRM is first of all a
strategy, not a tool, not
a piece of software as many
people think.
It is a strategy that seeks
profitability in the company.
In the end, any business wants to
be profitable, the more profitable
the better.
This is what this CRM strategy
will help.
In the bottom, then we'll go looking
at how you'll get this profitability,
but what you'll look for
is profitability.
The ultimate goal is to increase
profitability.
That is.
How will he do it?
We seek the best possible relationship
with customers and know the
customer better.
This will be a double benefit.
On the one hand, the company will know
the customer better, will be able
to offer them better those products
that they have in their portfolio
and the customer will receive
a better customer experience.
Both by the subject of personalization and
by the subject of the offer that you will
receive in the bottom.
Well, I think that it is clear to us
that the profitability goal allows
you to better manage the relationship
with the customer, adapt more
to their needs, the customer
experience is better, etc.
This sounds very well.
What we have to do now is contextualize
it in concrete uses because
it helps us a lot to understand
how companies like Philips,
like you, use CRM.
and perfect.
We will do the following.
Let's see what the main
departments that use
CRM and why they use it.
and perfect.
Departments in general can be the
entire company.
The whole company can be involved
in What matters here is not the
tool but the whole philosophy
and strategy.
But when it comes to the tool,
who is using it?
Let me give you three or four
examples that I think are the most practical.
First of all, the address.
Management uses this type of
systems to make decisions
based on data, not sensations.
And also to have a 360-degree view
of what is happening in the company
and what is happening to the
customer and how we will see
the customer from different
points of view.
From financial, from legal, from
marketing, from sales.
On the other hand, we have sales.
What you will have there is all the history
of relationships that you have had
with the client that can be well projects
that are in progress, projects that
are in the future, calls that I have
been able to make, emails that I have
been able to send, offers that
I have been able to get to send
and that you have accepted or not with
that we will also be able to go analyzing
why they are already accepting
those offers or those projects
and why not and be able to
make decisions.
Per we find that the historical
price we have given that customer
is very high or that they are probably
winning our competition,
they are winning us in price.
We can adjust the decisions
and price we are giving
customers based on
all these data.
There is a very operational use,
very day-to-day, that the commercial
delegates that already have a
name, have so many interactions,
not only they have many interactions
with customers but also the
rest of the organization that
you have a tool that allows
you to collect it,
manage it, etc.
Or if it is unmanageable.
And I also think it is important
to see how far we want to get because
we can believe that the commercial
targets all the wise data and for
there but I think that maybe
it doesn't make sense, we have
to see what we're going to
use them for.
If really the only thing we want to know
is what kind of projects we are
working with customers, because
we're going to put just that, it's
not necessary to have the rest.
So I think it is important to
differentiate what granularity
we want to get based on what
data and what analytics
we will want to get out
later.
I have seen in a tool that uses the
commercial address to control
the daily activity of the trading
force because clear the obligation
that they perceive it imposed
in many cases but good to register
your activity allows
the commercial direction
because that have controlled
just.
At the bottom I think it's a reaction
and it's usually one of the
entry barriers, this will be the
big brother you'll control everything
I do.
It is true that these systems
make sense if someone feeds
them with data, there can be
automatic data entries especially
on the marketing side
but often they have to be
manual entries.
What is important here is to
give the trade force a reason for
them to go, to see the benefit
that will be impacted
on them if they follow
these rules of the game.
This is basically because
many students may not know because
in many cases the commercial
forces are somewhat reactive
to using this type of tools
because it can complicate them
a little, they can perceive
it with a little bit of a blow
in getting the information
because they perceive it
is a tool of control etc.
I think they are those two, one will
take them maybe one day a week or
whatever time of operation from
being in the client on the street
and another will be controlling
everything I do and everything
I don't do.
That as you said really this is a
misuse, that is, control is a misuse
but good I wanted to make it clear
because it is something that exists,
that is, many companies
use it so it is worth it.
We already know how to use
the address, it allows you
to make decisions based
on basically real data and
customer information
collected as well as that
360.
How do sales use it?
I would give now marketing,
marketing I believe is always
the fundamental pillar of
any CRM strategy.
In the bottom, what we will look for
is to better know the customer, see
what kind of campaigns we will
want to launch according to the
customers, that is, we will put the
topic of segmentation that is one
of the fundamental pillars also
in the CRM that is to say in
accordance with all the attributes
of all the data we have in the system
what kind of segments we will
create when launching campaigns
and what kind of content we
will launch to customize that
message.
With which all that interaction
with the customer can even
become automated as we can
talk later, it is some of
the uses that marketing does.
Yes, it basically has a lot more
information and allows you to adapt
the proposals, campaigns, etc.
That is.
And the tool also allows you to automate
it which is a huge advantage.
That is even can come if we see
these two topics together no marketing
and sales these two teams all
this information that has been
collected can even come to
for the whole part of research
and development and say what products
we need to take out, what is
what is me demanding from the
market and what effectively is
information that feeds within
the CRM marketing and sales
but that has to flow to other
departments that are
responsible for IMAX D,
product, etc.
That is for example.
Another example is
customer care.
Customer care is one of the
components that also has
say a direct customer relationship
can be if we mention two
can be customer care and
sales force.
All this information is a direct
input from the customer and I think
it is very valuable.
Sometimes they are complaints but
those complaints we also have to
know how to analyze them and know
why the customer is complaining.
If it is for some internal process
that we have is for a faulty
product or why the customer
is complaining to try to fix it.
When it comes to customer service, it
is important to have all this
information available and detailed.
People who are on the phone know if there
is any commercial in contact with this
customer, what type of product
has been offered to him, if marketing
launches some type of campaign,
if that campaign is in place or
not, if the customer has probably
already called with some other
complaint, some other suggestion and
depending on all this the relationship
that people will have with the
customer can be totally
different.
This is what you typically call
customer service to a company results
that they don't have your data
as much as it is that it can't be
and the CRM helps the solution to this.
So I think we have suffered from
calling telephone companies for
bills or service cuts and
we have to tell the same story
a thousand times one after another.
This is what should solve this
type of systems, that when you
get a new people out your file
and say well I know what happens
to the story from this point I
do not have to go back and back
to the entire history.
I will do a little look, you have talked
about four departments
although they are more, direction,
the direction allows you to make
decisions, but then sales,
marketing and customer service
especially sales and customer
service are the departments
that are most responsible
for incorporating information
within the CRM.
They are the ones who have direct
contact with the customer.
So somehow this is a flow of value
or information going and going is
the CRM allows us to get much
more information and richer
from our customers with the aim of
making it back, that is, that
the value come back because now
we know ourselves much better
and then marketing, customer
service and sales may not know
to return the value.
This is very tangible
in the marketing world.
When we put a form on the web we ask
the customer to fill it in we always
have to tell you why you have
to fill it is to say because
you will receive a newsletter
with our offers or you
will receive no know something
in return.
This is the same way that
we are going to see in this type
of case and in the case of sales
it is a bit the same thing we have
talked about.
We want you to give this data because
in return imagine when if you are a
commercial you are assigned a new customer
you do not have to start from
scratch to call the customer
hear who you are, who you are not,
what you do, what we have done with you.
You have all that history and you can
start from the work your previous
partner has done.